R3s is a tactical horror mystery TTRPG designed for 4 players (1 Game Master, 3 Role Players). Utilizing grid-based maps, a d8 dice system, and skill-based Character Progression, players will take on the roles of clandestine operators and face off against multidimensional aggressors. 

At the center of R3s is an in-depth roleplaying experience. The core game includes a handful of fully fleshed out worlds for players to explore and interact with. Players are highly encouraged to immerse themselves in the characters that they create and the ones they meet during gameplay. 

## Premise
R3s' story begins roughly 40 years ago. A cataclysmic re-ordering of spacetime's topology has entangled the fabric of multiple realities. Several planets, each home to a powerful sapient species, have been folded into each other, birthing an anomalous celestial body known as the Core World. After weathering the environmental fallout of this event, which has been retrospectively dubbed "The Rearrangement", the three major species of the Core World have banded together under the banner of the Core World Union (CWU). This conglomerate entity oversees the recovery and expansion efforts of the Core World and her colonies. 

The Rearrangement had subtler, but no less apocalyptic, effects on the material universe as well. Incomprehensibly powerful entities from beyond the dimensions of space and time have been roused by the shockwaves of the Rearrangement. Now seeking to encroach on a new domain, these entities facilitate a silent race to press into the universe and establish at as a vestige of their own strange domains. These entities are collectively known as "The Outer Court", and they work competitively to gain footholds wherever they can in both the physical and mental landscapes of the Observable Universe. 

Just over a decade ago, one of the Outer Court entities came far too close to realizing its goal of materially manifesting inside of the Core World. The CWU faced the momentous task of corralling its inhabitants to safety while also waging open, total war on the incursion that had silently blossomed in the deep and dark of the planet. In the final hours of the conflict, it seemed that all had been lost as the entity began pulling itself through the very fabric of reality. However, a last-ditch hail mary by a little known private organization known as the Volkus Initiative would see three warrior-mystic-scientists give their lives to push the entity back into its own domain. Having effectively saved the world and all of reality with it, the CWU approved the Initiative's request to be clandestinely absorbed into the wider Core World efforts. 

The conflict taught the CWU and VI two important things. The first was that the Outer Court was primarily fueled by the mental machinations of material organisms, specifically by a form of mental energy that would aggregate in a layer-between-layers known as the Noosphere. The Noosphere was the Outer Court's source of power and influence in the Observable Universe, but it was not theirs alone to utilize. The second thing learned from the incursion was that general awareness of the Outer Court in concentrated populations agitated the Noosphere in their advantage. It became apparent that the more the public knew about the Outer Court, the more easily they could be manipulated by its entities. An agreement was made that rendered the VI entirely covert, with the CWU responsible for the concealment of their operations. The VI needed to wage its war in the shadows in order for its work to remain necessarily effective. 

Which brings the story to present day. The Volkus Initiative maintains a vigilant eye, wary of any signs of the Outer Court's advances on the Observable Universe. When the whispers of a new cult begin to hang in darkened alleys, or when strange creatures start to haunt the moonlight edges of towns, or even when a political subfaction with oddly specific goals starts drumming up unrest- the Initiative takes decisive, swift, and usually silent action. The VI's implement of choice is the R3s unit: a team of three highly skilled covert operatives who are deployed to any locale in order to quickly quell the growing infestation of an Outer Court entity, by any means necessary. 

As a R3s operative, you will join two others under the lead of a Volkus Initiative Coordinator (VIC). Together, you will need to utilize social, survival, and tactical skills to accomplish your team's goals before an Outer Court entity completes its efforts and births a new dark age. You will explore massive cities that reach into the skies, small towns cloaked in trees, deep space research stations, and countless other environments. There will be clues to find, people to question, and monsters to kill. There will be negotiations to navigate, firefights to survive, and organizations to collapse. You will live, die, and live again. As a member of the most elite specialists in the expanded universe, there is no length that you cannot go to ensure that the encroaching horrors of beyond never make it past the door. 
## Campaigns
A Campaign represents the long-form duration of a team's deployment to an area. Campaigns begin during the Briefing stage of gameplay (prior to boots-on-the-ground deployment) and end when the primary objective(s) are complete, when the team is eliminated, or when the enemy forces complete their primary objective. 
Each campaign follows the same loose structure, though exceptions can be made for special Campaigns. During the Briefing, players will be given:
1. A Location - Usually a city or town. One which has begun to show signs of an enemy incursion or outright invasion. These locations can range in size from small towns to sprawling megacities.
2. An Intelligence Report - The Initiative gathers its intel from a massive web of implanted assets both on the Core World and throughout the colonies. When one of these assets submits a report with credible suspicion of Outer Court activity, the VI passes it to the R3s division. 
3. A Coordination & Control Officer - (Also known as VICs in-game.) This is the role of the GM. A "first there" character who has established a Safehouse for the players to operate out of within the Campaign locale. The VIC is responsible for handling intel gathered by the team, monitoring the locale situation and threat level, and assisting the players with organizational resources as they progress the Campaign. 
4. Initial Loadouts - Prior to deployment, characters will be able to select equipment to start the Campaign with. While initial selections are limited in order to maintain a covert presence and gameplay balance, players will be able to gather new equipment from their environment and request additional supplies through their VIC as the Campaign progresses. 

## Investigating
R3s members are not just warriors. The Volkus Initiative very carefully selects its recruits for their ability to adapt, learn, and investigate. When your team arrives at the mission locale, you will only have the some traces of information to begin with. Together with your team, you will need to pursue leads, uncover clues, and question important figures in order to reveal the whole picture of your campaign. The exact information your team will need to acquire is never explicit, but the VI's standard protocol encourages securing the following information:
- The identity of the Outer Court entity influencing the area. 
- The components, methods, or location of the Ritual of Transgression, which will bring the entity into full power within the Observable Universe. 
- The entity's Herald(s), people which the entity has selected to act as a medium between itself and any cults/organizations that have gathered around it. 
With these critical pieces of information secured, your team will be able to take effective action against the Outer Court's efforts to break into the world. 

## Roleplay and World Interaction
R3s is a tactical game, but it is equally a roleplaying experience as well. As operatives navigate through their mission environment, they will meet numerous NPCs- many of which will be able to provide important information and opportunities to aid the team in completing their objectives. As a team of covert agents, operatives will need to immerse themselves in the environment and engage with the locals. As players interact with the world and its inhabitants, the consequences of their actions will ripple through the story. Perhaps saving a thief from the police makes the local law enforcement less cooperative, but wins loyalty with a street organization. How players interact with the world changes how the world interacts with them. 

Players can read into the R3s archive to learn more about the setting, its history, and the many cultures and peoples within it. The best way to learn, though, is to engage with the world. Emergent story-telling is the goal R3s strives for, using the backbone of investigative operations as its vehicle. 

## Tactical Operations
Over the course of a campaign, you and your team will encounter several opportunities to engage in mission oriented strikes. These are heavily concentrated combat encounters that utilize grid based navigation and positioning. There will be one or more objectives to accomplish during these operations, such as eliminating targets, destroying infrastructure/resources, extracting civilians, etc. Tactical Operations occur primarily in locations where enemy forces have gathered or maintain a significant presence. These situations utilize specific rules of engagement based on the overall progression of a campaign. At the end of an Operation, your team will be rewarded with experience and requisition allowance, which provide new abilities and equipment. 

## Combat and Momentum
R3s is a turn-based game, but seeks to capture the rapid and frenetic pace of close quarters combat and gunfighting. Combat occurs in rounds representative of 3 second intervals. During each round, all participating characters select a number of actions to fill their 3-second window. When this is done, each action plays out in the order they were selected for each character. Changes to character states are applied *after* each action, unless otherwise stated. After all actions have occurred, a new round begins. This continues until all members of one party are dead, incapacitated, or surrendering. 

**Momentum** is a core mechanic of combat in R3s. It represents the tempo of combat, granting advantages for organized, rhythmic cohesion between characters. Momentum is gathered by accomplishing specific feats, using certain abilities, and maintaining a tempo within combat. When a party gains Momentum, they can take more actions and attack more effectively. However, Momentum can be disrupted by other abilities and feats. In theory, a team that has mastered maintaining Momentum could dance through a Tactical Op without giving their enemies so much as a chance to breathe. A well prepared enemy, on the other hand, could just as easily disrupt Momentum and seize it for themselves, similarly gaining advantages for putting your team on the backstep. 

## Death and R3surrection
You will die. Possibly a lot. R3s is intended to be an intense, high stakes experience, but not a punishing one. Even though death is a common occurrence in the field, fortunately so is R3surrection. The VI's proprietary process, R3surrection is a multi-purpose procedure which extracts the mental and psychic essence of an operative and renders it in a way that allows them to take on a new body. When an operative experiences physical death in the field, there are a number of options available to their teammates to bring them back into the fight. Certain abilities allow operatives to reanimate flesh into a temporarily usable vessel, while others can apply bio-mechanical augments to get a downed operative on their feet. Failing a field R3surrection, the mental and psychic essence of a recently deceased operative can be captured, stored, and then implanted into a back-up body. 

Despite this technology, there are still instances where operatives will experience complete death. Extensive mental or psychic damage can *permanently* kill an operative. In this case, players will need to create a new character which will then be deployed as reinforcement to the team. Character creation is intended to be streamlined in order to allow for a faster process. 

## Characters
Operatives of the Initiative are screened intensively, and trained even more so. Character creation involves a number of necessary mechanical selections, but players are strongly encouraged to engage with a freeform roleplaying narrative. During the character creation process, players will select a species and an archetypal background for their character, both of which will have an impact on their abilities and skills. Next, players will be able to choose from a number of Specializations (classes) or select individual properties to create their own. After undergoing the subsequent training courses for their selection, their operative will be ready to deploy into their first campaign. 

## Attributes and Skills
Operative characteristics are categorized in two ways. The first is the division of "Attributes" and "Skills". Attributes represent more implicit characteristics that are not necessarily activity oriented. They are used to calculate Thresholds and allot skill points. Skills, on the other hand, are explicitly trained characteristics that operatives consciously improve upon. They are used during Checks and combat rolls. The second categorization is into four types: BODY, MIND, SPIRIT, and WEIRD. These are the broad characteristic types that encompass both Attributes and Skills. They are used in a number of different ways. 

## Thresholds
R3s uses a threshold system to track the vitals and state of characters. There are four thresholds in total, but some characters/entities can have anywhere from two to four. Player Characters will always have all four. These thresholds are:
- Health Threshold (HT) - Tracks physical trauma
- Stamina Threshold (ST) - Tracks physical exhaustion
- Psionics Threshold (PT) - Tracks mental cohesion
- Corruption Threshold (CT) - Tracks Outer Court influence
As characters accumulate points in a threshold, they will acquire unique statuses at 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100% which reflect the overall duress they have experienced. Maxing out a threshold carries a disastrous toll, so the careful use of abilities and equipment to modulate their value is critical. 

## Ranks and Specializations
Operatives are categorized by the VI in two ways: Rank and Specialization. In the meta sense, these represent an operative's "level" and "class". Both of these characteristics grant access to certain abilities and equipment, with higher ranked operatives being entrusted with rarer, more powerful assets than the recruits who have yet to fully prove themselves. Where Specialization determines what kinds of adoptable abilities or requisitioned equipment are available, Rank determines the tiers that are open to operatives. 
## Checks
While some combat related abilities and actions call upon specific skills to check, almost all other checks are distinguished by the BODY, MIND, SPIRIT, and WEIRD identifiers. This denotes the *intended* type of check. However, **all non-combat checks can be rolled with any skill, so long as the case can be reasonably justified.** If you use a skill that does not have the intended identifier, you take a flat -2 penalty to your roll. For example, if you come across a door that takes a BODY Check to force open, you could present a case that your higher Operation skill could allow you to pick the lock or disable the hinges, taking a -2 penalty to your roll. You would have a harder time arguing that you could Intimidate the door into opening, though. 

## Living Locations
A fundamental aspect to R3s, and pretty much any RPG, is the persistent "aliveness" of its inhabitants and locations. As campaigns progress and the actions of both the Outer Court forces and the R3s take their toll, the local populations will react accordingly. While the VI still operates in secrecy, there are those that still remember the role they played on the Core World a decade prior- and the dire circumstances that called them there. The presence of an R3s team in any environment will raise the general anxiety of its populace, so the more brazenly the team acts, the more on-edge and agitated the people will become. Conducting actions in a subtle or covert manner will be essential to maintaining the stability of an environment. Additionally, some Outer Court cults have something to gain by stirring up the public, as it modulates the Noosphere in their masters' favor. They will employ means of propaganda, terrorism, and misinformation to influence the area. 

The measure of public unrest is tracked and categorized under the **Strife Level**, which provides players with campaign bonuses for lower values and provides enemies with advantages at higher ones. The Strife Level can be increased or decreased in a variety of ways depending on the location and the team's available means. 

## Campaign Progression
Campaigns evolve in a variety of ways as players make their way through investigations and operations. This progression is primarily tracked through the evolution of the Outer Court's influence on the area. Operative teams are "on the clock" against the OC's cults, with both sides racing to complete their objectives. As the local cults further their goals, they will accomplish tasks which can radically alter the environment. The closer they get to completing a Ritual of Transgression, the more severe the effects of their actions become. In most cases, this progression looks something like so:
1. **Campaign Deployment** - When the R3s team touches down, whichever cult is active in the area will have already gathered a significant following. Despite that, they will still be making an effort to remain hidden from CWU and local authorities. A few civilians have probably heard of a new group cropping up in the fringes of society. 
2. **Active Investigation** - Following the cult's trail will inevitably lead to confrontation. Once the cult becomes aware of the R3s team's presence, they will make efforts to obfuscate and accelerate their goals. Locals may notice an uptick in missing persons or encounters with abnormal fauna. 
3. **Outer Court's Gaze** - As the cult accomplishes more of their minor goals and begins to assemble their Ritual of Transgression, the entity they worship will take notice of their efforts and begin pushing against the fabric of local reality. Cultists begin to receive strange blessings which encourages them to act more brazenly in the public eye. Weather shifts into erratic patterns and local wildlife begins to alter. People become pointedly disturbed and society begins to fray slightly. 
4. **Ritual of Transgression** - As the Ritual begins, the effects on the area will become undeniable and almost apocalyptic in scale. The Outer Court entity begins to push into the world, corrupting physical and mental reality with its very presence. Society fully unravels and the area is thrown into chaos. The cult will likely converge on the Ritual location, waiting for the arrival of their new dark god. 
5. **End Times** - As the Ritual nears completion, the Outer Court entity begins to emit a wider scope of its power. Local reality is completely overwritten by its own domain. For a moment, a massive gate between its world and this one is thrust wide open. All the horrors under its command spill into the world and begin their assault on all that is. In this short window of remaining time, the R3s team must face off with the entity itself as a final hail mary to push it back into its world. 
6. **Cult Annihilation (VICTORY)** - By interrupting the Ritual or killing the Herald(s), the Outer Court's leyline of influence is severed. Objects and environments affected by the cult and its entity are made inert again, though damage inflicted will no doubt remain. Living organisms that have been thoroughly effected by the entity's changing are unlikely to survive the sudden departure, but there are invariably survivors from destroyed cults. After confirmation that the cult is disintegrated, the R3s reconvenes with their VIC and are extracted back to Volkus Initiative headquarters for the debriefings. CWU forces move in to clean up the aftermath and provide support for the affected population. 
7. **Planetary Annihilation (GAME OVER)** - Should the R3s team fail to stop the Ritual and the arriving entity, the CWU is left with no choice but to engage a SUNSET operation. This highly classified process completely paves over an entire star system, neutralizing all matter in the effected area. This massive area denial strategy costs billions of innocent lives and is gravely reserved for only the most dire circumstance. 

## Careers
Completing a campaign rewards all of the surviving team with a powerful, unique trait. Players can choose to carry their characters over into a new game, launching a Career for their operative. Career operatives are able to collect these significant post-Campaign traits to give them an eldritch edge in their next endeavor. These operatives are not immortal, though. Any permanent death state will put an end to a Career, no matter how illustrious. 

# Lore

## The Rearrangement
The centerpiece of R3s' history and the catalyst for the alternative future it presents is The Rearrangement, which occurred on the Earth year of 2099. Also known as The Mix, this spacetime cataclysm folded layers upon layers of reality on top of each other. This folding created a crossroad of worlds, where different stretches of spacetime seamlessly intersect and bleed together. The stretches of space where these worlds bleed are as dangerous as they are strange. Physical laws wrestle with each other, fields of influence warp and bend at random, and lifeforms jump between realms with shocking ease. The first few years following The Mix were overwrought with apocalyptic catastrophe as countless worlds settled into their new positions. Three decades have passed now, and the collision tremors have settled down in most places. The sapient inhabitants from these mulched together worlds have steadily set about building new civilizations and expanding to the now much more densely populated sectors of unsettled space. 

Collaborative research efforts on The Rearrangement have revealed what ultimately caused the event. During the First Incursion, CWU scientists uncovered the existence of a non-physical layer of existence which persists uniformly across all of spacetime. This stratum of reality is the coalescing space of psychological energy from sapient organisms. The human researchers in the CWU took to calling it "The Noosphere", borrowing the term from human philosophy. The Noosphere aggregates the psychic activity that forms around conscious minds, pooling it into a formless space of energy and movement. As the populations of three sapient species flourished, so did the amount of energy in the Noosphere around them. Eventually, this increasingly heavy psychic weight proved too much for the tenuous balance between spacetime and the Noosphere. Once the balance was destabilized, the Noosphere recoiled, dumping the energy into the physical world while heavily distorting its topography.The resulting deformation led to the current crossroad of worlds. 

## The Core World
At the center of this crossroads is the Core World. The Core World appears like one of the three planets home to the CWU's sapient species, but at all times it is actually all three planets superimposed upon each other. Each planet's most densely populated areas were completely annihilated during the Rearrangement; replaced by the vast, rippling oceans of tattered spacetime known as Gateways. These Gateways connect the three planets in non-euclidean space, allowing travelers to seamlessly pass from one planet to the next. When viewed from orbit, the Core World is uncannily difficult to perceive. The surface shifts and flickers, making visual navigation to the planetside an extremely risky process. 

On the surface, day to day life is largely uninterrupted by the strange new way of being. Following the period of cataclysm caused by The Mix, often referred to as the Storming Time, there was an intense diaspora of life between the three planets. While most fauna has significant troubles traversing away from their origin planets, the sapient species of each planet have readily adapted to each other's environments. Many of the cities on the Core World enjoy a rich diversity of cultures and species under the CWU banner. 

The three planets that make up the Core World are Terra (Earth), Hygon, and Nodens. 

### Terra (Earth)
`Class: TO-3 (Terrestrial-Oceanic, Size III)`
`Dominion Species: Human (common), homo sapiens (Human), padda'quisk (Deepfolk), kwahriss (Nightgaunt)`
`Population: ~11,403,500,000`
The youngest of the three Core World planets, Terra is a diverse world of numerous biomes and geographies. Its dynamic atmosphere supports a staggering number of species of both fauna and flora. The most advanced of these species are Humans. These mostly hairless primates are bipedal, social creatures characterized by their advanced intelligence (comparatively to other Terran species). Human culture is as diverse as its varied climates and ecosystems, yet their history is predominantly unified by qualities of conquest and technological advancement. Humans are very tool and system oriented, which has led to Terra being a deeply industrialized planet. While the Storming Years have returned vast swathes of the planet to nature, the new major population centers that have grown to prominence are citadels of industry.

### Hygon
`Class: 0-5`
`Dominion Species: Deepfolk (common), stomatopoda tiefenritter (Human), shnit'quisk (Deepfolk), unakriss (Nightgaunt)`
`Population: ~115,500,000
Hygon is a supermassive oceanic planet covered in continental ice sheets. Similar to the Jupiterian moon of Europa, Hygon's planetary ocean is covered by a shell of ice. Hygon possesses an extremely thin exosphere, making natural life on the surface untenable for all but several microscopic species. Below the ice, Hygon's fathomless ocean is similar to Terra in its wide-ranging diversity and climatology. The radioactive decay of the planet's core provides a significant source of heat, which propagated the development of life in the oxygen-rich ocean. The predominantly significant species of this planet is the *shnit'quisk*, or Deepfolk. These quadrupedal crustaceans are most strongly characterized by their "knight"-like appearances and comparatively lengthy lifespans. Deepfolk society is heavily oriented around honor and ritual. Deepfolk have an immense reverence towards *hus'plint*, or "sacred struggle". This concept motivates much of Deepfolk society and is the cornerstone of their philosophical and military history. Deepfolk are physiologically specialized for their environments and lifestyles, and thus have little need for advanced industrial systems. Much of their history is shared through oral tradition, as is most of their culture. 

### Nodens
`Class: Ta-2 (Terrestrial(anomalous) Size II)`
`Dominion Species: Nightgaunt (common), gargola golemi (Human), skra'quisk (Deepfolk), miikriss (Nightgaunt)`
`Population: ~889,300`
Nodens is far and away the oldest of the three core planets. Once likely teeming with life, a celestial calamity deformed the planet at some point and drove all natural life to sudden extinction. Nodens now has a supermassive canyon spanning the equatorial line around the planet, giving it an "eaten apple" appearance. This planetary gash is deep enough to expose parts of the core, though the hyperdense diamond crust keeps the planet from disintegrating. The planet retains a dense atmosphere due to the amount of carbon dioxide released from both decay and volcanic activity from the partially exposed core. Currently, there is very little biological life present on Nodens, save for some small species of arthropod-adjacent organisms. Despite this, Nodens is still populated by an evolutionary achieved symbiosis with the Noosphere. The dominion species on Nodens, the Nightgaunts, appear as animated bipeds composed of a polymorphic crystalline material known as *mii*. However, the physical bodies of Nightgaunts are not biologically or naturally produced in any way. Rather, Nightgaunts exist as emergent thoughtforms which emanate from Nodens' local Noosphere. These thoughtforms are able to manipulate and "inhabit" deposits of mii, allowing them to create bodies for themselves through a process called *miikrissyl* ("matter becoming"). Nightgaunts in material form retain a slight connection to their Noosphere, allowing them to borrow from the psychic aggregate which holds their cultural identities and histories. Miikrissyl occurs with lower thoughtforms as well, which produces more bestial organisms (although this occurs rarely and without pattern). Nightgaunts and their derivatives lack practically all the natural processes that dictate the life cycles and behaviors of their counterparts, and as a result have no need for agriculture or civil infrastructure. Instead, much of their lives and culture are dedicated to the creation and refinement of arts and science. Even so, these disciplines are largely tied to their relationship with the Noosphere, blending an enigmatic spirituality to both their culture and their technology.