INTERNAL REPORT - EMERGENCY BRIEF 121
FROM: CoreWorld Union (CWU), Menkar-3 Orbital Surveillance
TO: CWU Central Command, Core System 
DATE: 13:50 GUT 12/04/2112
SUBJECT: Observation of novel noosphere manipulation in Bellatrix

Summary: 
At 00:45 GUT 12/04/2112, CWU Noosphere Analysis Arrays in the reaches of the Menkar system detected an unidentified pocket heavy psionic activity originating around the Bellatrix system. Initial analysis was unable to determine the origination point for this activity, but current scans indicate that the intensity is increasing rapidly. Communication with CWU installations in the Bellatrix system is ongoing, though limited by Bellatrix's local interference. While efforts are still being made to gather reports on the effects of the noosphere activity, several notable points of information have been prioritized for dissemination to raise awareness about the alarmingly anomalous nature of this event. 

Key points:
- Manipulated Noosphere Fields (MNFs)
	- A Manipulated Noosphere Field is a pocket of extra-physical energy generated by the psionic weight of a localized physical area. MNFs are generally inconsequential to physical reality, as most emanations are too weak to manifest measurable effects. However, extreme MNFs (like the ones responsible for the 2100 T-Collapse) can have catastrophic consequences on physical space. 
	- Current data indicates that psionic weight is most directly effected by population density. Larger populations create a heavier psionic weight, leading to an increased rate of noosphere fluctuations. However, even in large populations, high intensity MNFs are rare occurrences. 
	- Low intensity MNF effects are benign, ranging from tinnitus to minor electrical interference. High intensity effects are more profound, causing acute psychosis, spatial anomalies, and widespread physical damage. 
	- Below, a chart is provided to elaborate the comparative rate of noosphere fluctuations per psionic unit (nf/pu). 

| X                    | Core World     | Taigon        | Menkar     | Bellatrix |
| -------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ---------- | --------- |
| Population           | 17,877,231,091 | 5,992,803,100 | 11,509,133 | 7,362     |
| nf daily avg. / 1000 | 10,353.33      | 2,081.79      | 7,066.90   | 23,406.90 |
| System pu            | 284.12         | 180.18        | 262.32     | 272.3     |
| nf/pu                | 36.44          | 11.55         | 26.94      | 85.96     |
- Bellatrix System
	- Bellatrix system has no planetary established, but the Bellatrix Habitation Platform hosts 7,362 CWU personnel to operate the local installations. A mostly human populated system, low to moderate is the common level for MNF activity. In past measurements, Bellatrix has reported a baseline range of 15-20 nf/pu. This rapid increase from Low to Severe Activity is highly alarming. 
	- Digital communications to and from Bellatrix have been severely limited due to the intensity of electromagnetic interference. Despite this, the limited communications we have retrieved reports NO physical or mental anomalies manifesting from the MNF emergence. 
	- Bellatrix system is a key establishment for CWU operations, providing critical deep space observation and analysis. Loss of this system's functionality presents a major blind spot in the CWU's administrative capabilities.

Hypotheses:
1. Due to the low population of Bellatrix and the lack of physically or mentally destructive effects, it is possible that the MNF is emerging from a non-physical source. 
2. The pattern of manifested effects seems controlled, in stark contrast to previously observed MNFs. Anomalies appear to be limited to communication disruption, leading to speculation that this is an intentional attempt to isolate Bellatrix. While a significant number of analysts here hold this theory, there is no conclusive evidence behind an intentionally generated or controlled field emergence. 
3. Bellatrix's nf/pu value spiked rapidly for several hours before slowing to a steady incline. At the current trend, Bellatrix will experience a +6.47 nf/pu increase per day. 

Recommendations:
1. Direct emergency FTL support to the Bellatrix system. If the MNF intensity trend holds, prioritize evacuation and data recovery. 
2. Direct technical support to Menkar system. Attempts to establish communication with Bellatrix and research capabilities can be strengthened through additional hardware and personnel. 


---

INTERNAL REPORT - EMERGENCY BRIEF 123
`FROM: CoreWorld Union (CWU), Menkar-3 Orbital Surveillance`
`TO: CWU Central Command, Core System` 
`DATE: 13:22 GUT 18/04/2112`
`SUBJECT: Catastrophic Reports from Bellatrix Personnel`

Summary: 
After 3 days of effective radio silence from stations in the Bellatrix system, a string of correctly compiled messages have made it to the Menkar Orbital Surveillance station, originating from the Bellatrix Habitation Platform. The content of the messages is still under review for potential memetic hazards, but it is abundantly clear that mass hysteria has overtaken the entirety of the platform. While the messages provide little in the way of comprehensible communication, analysts on Menkar-OS have been able to skim valuable information from the content's background and metadata. 

Key Points:
- Infrastructure Criticality
	- Like most CW orbital platforms, Bellatrix-HP requires persistent on-site personnel to oversee the various systems that keep the station operational. Metadata from the HP shows that communication arrays have been power cycled numerous times and then altered. While this could be the result of attempts by on-site personnel to fix their equipment, it also shows that the station has endured considerable damage to its external systems. With limited personnel and resources to address this damage, the Bellatrix Habitation Platform runs a risk of cascade failure and total destruction. 
- Violence
	- Most disturbingly, there is considerable evidence of severe casualties onboard Bellatrix-HP. Video data detailed intense in-fighting between the HP's inhabitants, and numerous fatalities have been confirmed from the feed. During transmission, communication specialists were able to open a connection to Bellatrix-HP's security system, which provided the following information on the platform.
		- `Bellatrix-HP Security Status: !TOTAL LOSS!
		- `Active Secuirty Personnel: 0 (0 off-duty, 32 Deceased)`
		- `Automated Security Status: MUNITIONS - ERROR 404`
		- `TOTAL LOSS AUTHORIZED: DESTRUCT ERROR - PAYLOAD REMOVED`
	- The activation of TOTAL LOSS on any CW station marks the platform as "unfit for retrieval". This is an extremely rare occurrence, designed to contain pathogenic outbreaks. Under normal circumstances, activation of this subsystem detonates the onboard fusion reactors and destroys the platform. The protocol was activated 2 days after the last transmission from the system, leading teams here to speculate the protocol was activated in good faith, possibly in response to the outbreak of hysteria. Despite its activation, the TOTAL LOSS failed to complete, citing hardware removal. This matches the trend of heavy modification to the platform's systems. 
	- Confirmation of Security casualties and evidence from scraped video feeds bring the current confirmed fatalities to at least 67. 
- 