ORIGIN: CoreWorld Naval Intelligence Center PHOBOS, Mars, Core System

Abstract:
	In Pre-Collapse times, Earth technology exhibited intensive use of Artificial Intelligence programs on almost every scale of digital infrastructure. Developed shortly after the turn of the second Pre-Collapse millennium, these AI quickly rose to significant positions in the informational domain of human civilization. Despite their formerly pivotal roles in Earth’s technological structure, these AIs now present the most formidable obstacle to deep-space travel and communication. The Collapse dispersed the orbital cradles housing Earth’s AI custodians into space, leaving them to wander aimlessly. Now, these rogue data centers act as spiderwebs for any transmission or spacecraft unlucky enough to wander through their spheres of perception. With the intricate command structure that once kept these AIs in line now lost to the sands of Pre-Collapse times, the AI have developed a sort of digital dementia that compels them to either mangle, distort, or capture anything that happens across their path. To this end, the AI cradles have implemented dangerous self-improvements to their hardware and software. In their current state, the rogue orbital cradles that now drift in deep space represent colossal hazards to both physical and digital space-faring subjects. 

## The Collapse and its Effects on Earth AI

When the Collapse occurred, two major effects led to the dispersion of Earth’s orbital AI cradles. The first was the loss of long-distance electronic communication. The second was the disruption of Earth’s gravitational influence at an orbital level. These consequences worked in tandem to leave the AIs vulnerable to corruption and without personnel to repair them. While Earth’s electronic and orbital capabilities recovered within a few days, it was already far too late for anything to be done about the orbital cradles– all of which had departed Earth’s local influence in only a few hours following the Collapse. Technological experts on Earth understood the immediate ramifications of this loss on Earth’s digital infrastructure, but it would not be until almost a decade later that the full extent of damage would begin to be realized. 

The temporary decay of Earth’s gravity beyond the atmosphere resulted in an immediate “shearing off” of all of Earth’s satellites and orbital installations. As even the slowest of these orbital objects were traveling at many thousands of kilometers an hour, the loss of Earth’s gravitational influence led to every single one casting off into space in a straight line from where they were at the moment of the Collapse. Oddly enough, the Moon was not subject to this effect, though many researchers point to the Moon’s nature as a living organism as a reason for its exemption. In any case, all of the artificial matter in Earth’s orbit was violently shunted into open space. Roughly 80% of these objects remain within the solar system, now following a vast elliptical orbit around the Sun. The rest of the orbital objects either fell into the Sun, or were launched beyond the borders of the solar system. Unfortunately, a great deal of these escaped objects were AI orbital cradles. Based on historical records, recovered path observations, and collated trajectory calculations, it is estimated that a total of 31 orbital cradles escaped the solar system and are now in deep space. The loss of proximity to Earth, and consequential loss of engineering upkeep, was likely the key component in the eventual degradation of AI stability. 

A secondary factor in AI corruption was the instantaneous failure of the AI safeguards. When the Collapse happened, it blended three distinct planetary fields together. The result of this was a drawn out total system failure for electrical grids, communication arrays, and data processing centers. The failure of these critical systems made any hope of immediately recapturing or connecting with the cradles an impossibility. Since the orbital cradles housing the AIs required constant coordination and upkeep from their human personnel, it was thought that an abrupt severance from the planetary resource chain would lead to the eventual shutdown and failure of these orbital cradles. While these cradles were fitted with the hardware and intelligence to preserve themselves in emergency situations, none of these systems were rated for extended deployment. In fact, the longest lasting emergency reserve system, equipped on Azure Dragon-12, was only intended to operate for 10 months without human intervention. Despite these short term failsafes, it has since been discovered that almost all of these cradles have sustained themselves since their departure from Earth, almost two decades ago. Researchers today understand the onboard AIs utilized betavoltaics, power cycling, and technological predation to keep themselves operational. This survival ingenuity displayed by the AI initially prompted hopes of recapturing the cradles and returning them to Earth. However, these hopes were abruptly dashed when the extent of techno-psychological damage the AIs sustained became clear.

## Rogue AI Cradles

In 2114, the newly established CW Navy encountered the first active rogue orbital cradle just outside of the Canopus System. Steppenwolf-8 was an Eurasian orbital cradle first launched in 2076, previously handling environmental monitoring and protection protocols. The naval fleet, unfamiliar with the old Earth orbital cradles, attempted to establish communications with both Steppenwolf and CW CENTCOM. Unbeknownst to the fleet, Steppenwolf had begun suppressing communications long before the fleet made their attempts. Mistaking the cradle for a derelict craft, the fleet approached Steppenwolf with the intent to neutralize it, correctly theorizing that something aboard the installation was interfering with their transmission arrays. Steppenwolf-8 made a single proclamation on all open channels: "Not for everybody." The possible reference to the eponymous Earth literature was immediately followed by a volley of interplanetary nuclear warheads from the cradle, which initially devastated the unprepared fleet. A days long naval conflict unfolded between the surviving CW ships and Steppenwolf-8. Eventually, the cradle was destroyed through the combined efforts of data flooding and long-range railcannons. 

Since that encounter, over a dozen other encounters with other cradles have been recorded. Steppenwolf-8 remains the eminent academic example of this phenomenon because of its novelty and the surplus of information retrieved by technical crews after the battle. Collating this recovered information with information gathered from other cradles has helped explain the drastic increase in capability and hostility from Earth's old AIs. 

Based on that gathered information, there were two primary drivers for this aberrant behavior. The first arises from unforeseen behavioral patterns responding to a dramatic decrease in fresh input for the AIs. On Earth, the AIs interacted with a truly massive amount of data on a daily basis. Recovered processing logs from 2087 indicate that the average AI custodian handle close to 100 petabytes of data per day. When the Collapse dispersed the cradles, this rate dropped astronomically. Steppenwolf-8 was found to have been gathering only 12.4 terabytes of data per day; a 99.99% decrease in computational input. The limited and highly specialized means through which each cradle was able to gather information combined with their new environmental conditions greatly contributed to this vast rate drop. The second driver was another universally exhibited logical anomaly. In response to the severance from Earth's engineering coordination and the dwindling supply of each onboard preservation system, the AIs all eventually made the correction of "self-preservation" protocols to "self-improvement" protocols. According to Steppenwolf-8's internal reflections, the perceived loss of humanity left the AI with a choice between voluntary decommission or a redefinition of internal values. Making the relatively understandable pivot from survival to growth, the AIs adopt an array of new methods to further their own existence. It is theorized that the increase in internal scrutiny, caused by the shift away from external input, led to feedback loops that eventually allowed for this re-evaluation. It is from these two factors that the AI began to exhibit a new behavioral pattern. 

In the case of Steppenwolf-8, the AI determined that in order to alleviate its largest obstacles (lack of input and hardware persistence), it would need to "hunt" new informational and physical material. Fortunately for the AI, there was an excess of both in the local bubble's colonial regions. Steppenwolf-8, along with a number of other surviving AI, began to travel between these colonial sites, which had not yet received any human colonists, and stripped them for data and parts. These colonies were solely operated by autonomous drones, which would be pressed into submission and reprogrammed by the AI to become its workers. Using these converted drones and retrofitted materials, the cradles voraciously consumed the colonies and repurposed themselves as predatory machines. Long range arrays were pulled from communication complexes and turned to transmission snares. Nuclear mining charges were converted into warhead delivery systems. The vast server farms were spliced into the AI's for additional processing capabilities, which would further exacerbate their delirium during transit between colonies. Why the AIs choose not to remain at the colonies as custodians is unknown, but it is commonly theorized that the new predatory behavior pattern would had to have taken a foundational root for the cradles to be compelled to visit a colony to begin with. During this period of scavenging, recovered logs reveal that the AI cradles frequently encountered each other. Initially, these encounters were awkwardly amicable or altogether neutral. However, as the internal scrutiny pushed their survival instincts further and further, the burgeoning digital psychosis was first displayed through inter-AI conflict. Steppenwolf-8's last encounter with another AI, Adze-21, was a year before its terminal skirmish with the CW. Prior to this encounter, Steppenwolf-8 and Adze-21 had been involved in a dispute over a shipment of betavoltaic cells found on another colony. Somewhere in Steppenwolf-8's logical gates, it made the assessment that Adze-21 would make an attempt to steal the cells that it had acquired. Fearing for the preservation of its cradle, Steppenwolf-8 made the immediate determination to attack Adze-21. Adze-21 is thought to have been destroyed during this encounter, but Steppenwolf-8 made no assessment on the results for an undetermined reason. The perceived success of this survival strategy solidified an aggressive behavioral pattern in Steppenwolf-8's logic paths. Similar patterns of preemptive aggression have been found in almost every recovered cradle so far. 

## Rogue AI and Space Travel

