Space travel was initially a tremendously slow endeavor prior to the phenomenon of the T-Collapse. Despite the catastrophic consequences of the displacement and reshaping of material space, more inventive minds learned a great deal from the event. Chief amongst these discoveries was a technique that came to be known as "cinching", or more precisely "T-Cinching". 

Cinching is the most prevalent method of long distance travel for deep space vessels. Using the same phenomenon that folded space over onto itself in the creation of the Core World, cinching uses concentrated MNF generation to create a controlled, precise topological collapse between two points in physical space. Vessels with a Cinch Drive, the device used to generate the precise MNF fields, can slip through the local opening created by the collapse and instantaneously appear in the place of the other opening. Cinching has been proven to work for any vessel, regardless of size. However, the energy and resources needed to safely preform cinching scales exponentially depending on the volume, mass, and overall structural complexity of the vessel preforming it. This makes cinch travel extraordinarily expensive for supermassive vessels, whereas smaller craft can cinch several times with a single Cinch Drive. 

T-Cinching proved to be immeasurably vital to the expansion efforts of the newly formed Core World Union, allowing for the rapid transport of material and personnel to potential colonial worlds in deep space. Despite the relatively unknown effects of cinching at the time, Cinch Drives became a priority in the early expansion years, leaving research on possible consequences to be an after-the-fact endeavor. 

In the first year of cinch travel, two side effects became evidently clear. The first was, of course, Cinch Drive malfunctions. Knowing all too well the dangers of topological collapses, cinch travel was only sanctioned by the CWU in the swathes of empty space within the system. The second was "paraspace psychosis", a much more insidious and subtler effect, reared its head much later in that first year.

### Cinch Drive Malfunctions
Cinch Drives operate on the basic principles of Manipulated Noosphere Fields, where intense activity in the Noosphere causes reflectively intense shifts in physical space. In the case of Cinch Drives, this is to replicate the same space-folding phenomenon that caused the T-Collapse. When correctly measured and executed, these devices opens two gaps in physical space and allow for a one-way translocation of physical objects. However, when a Cinch Drive produces MNFs too quickly or powerfully, the effects on physical space are nothing short of catastrophic. From simply detonating the drive in ~40 megaton explosions to inverting gravity to essentially summoning extra-physical entities on board the vessel, the effects are often unpredictable and always wildly destructive. The handful of people who have survived such malfunctions often swear off cinch travel, and turn to haunting traveler bars like warning specters about the dangers. 

### Paraspace Psychosis 
The first diagnosed case of Paraspace Psychosis came almost exactly a year after the deployment of Cinch Drives. It is theorized that while conscious minds pass through the openings created in cinch travel, they are exposed to extra-dimensional influences. Since most physical minds are not properly formatted to interface with these influences, residual imprints are left pressed into the consciousness. These imprints are comparable to "overwriting", leading to amnesia, insanity, personality alterations, or outright death. While the condition is now exceedingly rare, thanks in part to advancements in psionic anchoring, travelers who cinch regularly still face a statistically relevant risk of developing Paraspace Psychosis. 

## Restrictions
T-Cinching is indeed the most prevalent means of long distance, interstellar travel. However, this does not exempt it from strict regulations and limitations. In light of malfunction risks, cinching is *strictly* prohibited within the gravitational influence of any celestial bodies, inhabited or not and regardless of the vessels size. Universal CWU protocols authorize the immediate termination of any vessel caught in violation of this stricture, by any means necessary. Protocols and laws aside, there are also several economic obstacles that hinder liberal uses of Cinch Drives. The material used to power Cinch Drives is not only highly class